CCGrid Doctoral Symposium 2012

The Doctoral Symposium of the IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Cluster, Cloud and Grid Computing (CCGrid) provides a forum for students in the areas of scalable Clusters, widely distributed Grids and emerging Clouds to obtain feedback and advice on their Ph.D. dissertation topics and research career. The specific goals of the Symposium are to provide advice to students for a successful thesis completion, to enable students to evaluate their research in the context of global trends, and to engender fruitful interactions and networking between student researchers at a similar stage in their careers.

Selected students will present their work in front of an audience that consists of both their peers and a committee of expert researchers. The program committee consists of experts in the field, which provide their valuable feedback to the ongoing research work of participating students. They will also have the option to display their work as a poster.

Topic Areas

The symposium is open to all Ph.D. students carrying out research on topics related to the CCGrid symposium interest areas. Example topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

Architectures, Systems and Designs for cluster, Grid and Cloud computing
Scalability issues in Grid and Cloud computing environments
Middleware for scalable distributed and cluster computing
Scheduling, load balancing and Resource management paradigms
Programming Models, Tools, Problem Solving Environments and Applications
Fault-Tolerant and reliable Computing
Trust, Security and Data Privacy on public and hybrid clouds
Service-Oriented Cyberinfrastructure, including discovery, composition and orchestration
Multicore, Accelerator-based and Heterogeneous Computing
Autonomic and Nature inspired Computing
Abstractions and Models for Dynamic, distributed and data intensive applications
Community and collaborative computing networks
High-performance networking
Economic and Utility computing models for clusters, Grids and Clouds
Important Dates

Submission Deadline: January 15th, 2012

Notification of acceptance: February 6th, 2012

Camera-ready submission: February 27th, 2012

Submission

Each submission needs to have a Ph.D. student as the sole author or as the primary author with his/her thesis advisor(s) as co-authors. Students must be officially enrolled in a Ph.D. Program at the time of submission. It is expected that they would have one to two years left in their candidature so that they have enough time to incorporate the suggestions made at the Symposium.

The submission should contain the following points:

An introduction with the specific research proposal that describes the problem that the thesis aims to address
The significance of the work and its relevance to the CCGrid symposium topic areas
Related work and their shortcomings that the candidate's research aims to address
Explanation of the proposed approach and the research methodology adopted
The results obtained so far, remaining objectives and the challenges expected to be tackled
Expected contributions of the research and the novelty and benefits of the suggested solutions
The submissions will be limited to between 4 - 6 pages of double column text, using single spaced 10 point size type on Letter (8.5"x11"), following the IEEE Computer Society proceedings guidelines. The proceedings of the doctoral symposium will be published as part of the CCGrid 2012 proceedings, as well as in the IEEE Digital Library.