Call for Papers

18th International European Conference on Parallel and Distributed Computing 
Euro-Par 2012 
Rhodes Island, Greece
August 27th-31st, 2012
http://europar2012.cti.gr/
europar2012@cti.gr
Submission Deadlines
Abstracts: January 31, 2012
Full papers: February 7, 2012

Euro-Par is an annual series of international conferences dedicated to the promotion and advancement of all aspects of parallel and distributed computing. Euro-Par focuses on all aspects of hardware, software, algorithms and applications in this field. The objective of Euro-Par is to provide a forum for the promotion of parallel and distributed computing both as an industrial technique and an academic discipline, extending the frontier of both the state of the art and the state of the practice.

The following topics will be covered by regular Euro-Par 2012 sessions:
Support Tools and Environments
Performance Prediction and Evaluation
Scheduling and Load Balancing
High-Performance Architecture and Compilers
Parallel and Distributed Data Management
Grid, Cluster and Cloud Computing
Peer to Peer Computing
Distributed Systems and Algorithms
Parallel and Distributed Programming
Parallel Numerical Algorithms
Multicore and Manycore Programming
Theory and Algorithms for Parallel Computation
High Performance Network and Communication
Mobile and Ubiquitous Computing
High Performance and Scientific Applications
GPU and Accelerators Computing
Full details on the topics, including topic descriptions and chairs, are available on the Euro-Par 2012 website (europar2012.cti.gr). The conference will feature tutorials and invited talks. Co-located workshops are also planned.

Paper Submission Guidelines
Full papers should not exceed 12 pages in the Springer LNCS style. Paper submission has to be performed electronically via the conference website in PDF format. Papers accepted for publication must also be supplied in source form(LaTeX or Word).

The 12 pages limit is a hard limit. It includes everything (text, figures, references) and will be strictly enforced by the EDAS submission system.

Download LNCS Latex style here.

Papers must offer original contributions regarding the theory and practice of parallel and distributed computing. Full submission guidelines are available on the conference website. Only contributions not submitted elsewhere for publication will be considered.

Authors must submit their papers to the specific topic they judge most appropriate. Details on the topics, including descriptions and chairs, are available on the conference website.

All accepted papers will be included in the conference proceedings, published by Springer in the LNCS series. Authors of accepted papers will be requested to sign a Springer copyright form.

Important dates
Deadline for abstracts: January 31, 2012
Deadline for full papers: February 7, 2012
Decision notification: May 11, 2012
Camera-ready full papers: June 1, 2012
Conference: August 27-31, 2012

Location
The Euro-Par 2012 conference will take place on Rhodes Island, Greece. It is organized by the Computer Technology Institute & Press "Diophantus" (CTI).

Conference Co-Chairs
Christos Kaklamanis, CTI and University of Patras
Theodore Papatheodorou, University of Patras
Paul Spirakis, CTI and University of Patras